# Tune Tracker
Tune Tracker is a new cross-platform application designed to help musicians (specifically jazz musicians) keep track of the tunes they need to practice more, and contrarily the tunes they are ready to perform. It does this by allowing the user to input their "confidence" in a given song after playing or practicing it, and then the program keeps track of this data. The program then allows the user to sort the songs by how well they know certain aspects of the song such as form, melody, rhythm, and lyrics.
## "Wait, doen't this already exist?"
Solutions for keeping track of the songs you know are very limited. Most jazz musicians I know use their notes app on their phone, or some other kind of text document. I have found myself using apps that weren't designed for this purpose, such as music streaming services, and iReal Pro which was solely designed to allow the user to read sheet music and play along with songs. Jazz applications are few and far between because the demand for this sort of thing seems low, and passion projects from a jazz musician who also has the ability and time to develop applications simply aren't likely to occur.
Tune tracker is unique because it allows the user to have a lot of power in declaring how well they know a tune. It's not just powerful, it's easy to use. After you practice a song, it would take 10 seconds or less to declare how confident you are in a song.
## Other Features
The effective way of learning a jazz standard is by listening to a recording and playing along with it. This recording needs to be clear, and there needs to be little improvisation in the melody in order for the listener to easily grasp how the song is played. Over a jazz musician's career, songs are forgotten and need to be releared. The user of Tune Tracker can add a "notable recording" to a song, such that when they need to relearn it they don't have to search for a clear recording again.
You may be concerned that you'll need to type out the title and composer of the song every time you learn a new one. Instead, you can instead search for the song on a list that was generated by JazzStandards.com. This will give you direct access to the tunes you are looking for very quickly.
## Goals
I have some lofty goals for the future of this project. I want to add the ability to graph a tune's confidence over time, which would require storing confidence entries along with a time stamp. I would also eventually like to create an online database of tunes, composers, notable recordings (and links to them from each streaming service), common keys and tempos, and tips and tricks on how to learn specific tunes. I would also like to add a social aspect for Tune Tracker, where you can see which songs are most commonly played and known, and other users can add to the database (with sources cited) for some kind of points or recognition. Ultimately this level of dedication and resources to the project would require the app to be paid, or for there to be a paid tier to the app, or for there to be donors involved.
## Impementations/History
Tune Tracker was originally implemented in NCurses for the terminal, and was then reimplemented in Python for an attempt at a cross-platform solution. This didn't work out, so I tried implementing Tune Tracker with Android's and iOS's own code infrastructure, but this also didn't work out. Finally, I have settled on React Native, which allows me to develop effectively and swiftly for Android and iOS, and potentially for the browser as well.
Happy tracking!

## Note for potential employers
You may have noticed that the contributions are split between hillia45 and volxage. Both of these accounts are mine, this is a solo project unless anyone else would like to contribute!
